# Eve Echoes - Journal Entry 2
I've now been playing for a month, and on a basic level I'm having quite a bit of fun with my new mobile game addiction. I like hunting for ore in my Venture 2 mining ship, trying to get the Dark Ochre before some Retriever comes by and vacuums it up in no time. I'm also toying around with industry making a very small profit on producing Ventures. Not something to get rich by, but I get some joy out of planning the production and writing small spreadsheets to figure out the profit I make. 
 
Also, just today while I'm writing this, NetEase announced that the game just reached a milestone of 2 million players, so clearly other's a enjoying it too.

But on a deeper level, I'm concerned for the longevity of the game itself. I think NetEase did a great job porting the Eve experience to mobile, but I also think the design is stuck somewhere between the PC-version and what a pure mobile MMO would be like. I mean, there are certain things I enjoyed back in Eve Online that I don't really see as a good fit for the mobile version, yet it seems that's the direction NetEase is taking. Do most mobile players really want to engage in hour long fleet battles to protect their null sec alliance systems on their mobile phones? Is anyone really interested in a mobile game that requires your full attention whenever you do anything interesting outside of high sec? Or just the basic requirements for daily participation in an active corp? All these things are at odds with usual mobile gaming, which is often something you do in small burst during the day, when you have the time.

It seems people like this game, but I'm unsure if people are actually treating it as a mobile game. It's evident from reading reddit and listening in on chats on discord that using emulators on PC is a thing. Heck, even I have done a bit of afk mining using the "MuMu App Player" on Windows so I could still use my phone for other things while filling my Venture with ore.

I think all these things are indications of a game that hasn't really been designed as "mobile first" as much as a more "mobile friendly" version of the original, but maybe my expectations of a mobile game is old-fashioned? If I wanted the full Eve experience, I would probably just play that instead, but like many who grew up playing Eve in their 20's, I'm now enjoying a life with a wife, kids, and a full-time job. Games that require my full attention over a long period of time is no longer a luxury I have.

The perfect MMO for me would not require my attention for more than 5-10 minutes at a time, wouldn't give me any benefit for using PC emulators, and would have the complexity and fun of a deep space mmo without the need for keeping the screen on during various tedious tasks (like mining). I mean, "idle games" is a thing, and I appreciate that NetEase seems to embrace that type of gameplay as well, but they could have taken it so much further. Eve Echoes could have been a very different game instead of the "Eve experience" in your pocket that we have right now.

Yes, I realize that I probably just need to play a completely different type of game than Eve Echoes, but really, Eve Echoes is the closest thing right now to what I actually want: A deep space-MMO embracing "mobile first" game design choices, is fun and engaging, yet doesn't benefit from emulators or need me to keep the screen on for long stretches of time while doing tedious tasks. I believe such a thing could actually be made - it just doesn't exist yet. And maybe it never will.

